---
title: "OpenHW To Join the Eclipse Foundation: FAQs"
seo_title: "OpenHW joining the Eclipse Foundation"
date: 2024-09-29
tags: ["openhw foundation", "transition", "working group", "frequently asked questions", "faqs"]
headline: "FAQs"
subtitle: "OpenHW joining the Eclipse Foundation"
hide_page_title: true
container: "container margin-top-30"
---

We’re thrilled to announce that OpenHW is officially joining the Eclipse
Foundation, a move that will allow us to sharpen our focus on delivering
high-quality cores with the backing of a trusted, globally recognized open
source partner. As part of this transition, we’re also evolving our name to
OpenHW Foundation, reflecting our growing membership, stronger collaborations,
and enhanced leadership within the industry. This transition is expected to be
finalised by December 2024, positioning us for even greater impact in the open
source hardware space.

Here are answers to some key questions about this transition:

{{< table_of_contents >}}

## Why is OpenHW joining the Eclipse Foundation?

This transition is a natural evolution in our journey. We've collaborated
closely with the Eclipse Foundation since our inception, benefiting from their
robust development processes, governance, and IT infrastructure. By formalising
this relationship, we can focus even more on delivering high-quality open
source hardware IP, streamline operations, and leverage the Eclipse
Foundation’s long-term stability and global credibility. This step strengthens
our community and positions us for continued success.

---

## What does this mean for the future of OpenHW?

Joining the Eclipse Foundation significantly strengthens our ability to focus
on the core mission of our community: developing high-quality, open source
RISC-V IP. With Eclipse’s robust support, we are excited to continue advancing
our work on verification, stability, and continuity, all driven by our
member-led roadmap.

As part of this transition, OpenHW will operate as a European-based, global
open source organisation, and will leverage its formal affiliation with Eclipse
to elevate its role in driving forward open source RISC-V initiatives. This
move positions us, through our members’ initiatives, to take on new challenges
and pursue growth opportunities, ensuring that the OpenHW Foundation remains at
the forefront of innovation in the open source hardware community.

---

## How will this change benefit the broader embedded industry and ecosystem?

The OpenHW Foundation will continue to lead in providing open source hardware
IP tailored to the embedded industry's needs. By streamlining our operations
through the Eclipse Foundation, we’re in an even stronger position to support
the industry with high-quality, verified cores that meet the rigorous demands
of modern embedded applications. Our ongoing projects, such as the CVA6, CVE4
and CVE2 cores and our open source platform initiatives, remain reliable and
performant solutions for deeply embedded control units and safety-critical
applications, helping drive innovation and adoption across the embedded
ecosystem.

---

## Does this change how I interact with OpenHW?

No, the way you interact with OpenHW will remain largely the same. You’ll
continue working with the same contacts on your current projects. The only
difference is the process for joining as a member and the governance rules
under which our initiative will operate.

---

## How will this transition affect current OpenHW projects?

The transition will enhance our ongoing projects and initiatives. Here’s an
update on key efforts:

- **CVA6**: This application-ready core is currently under verification and
  will feature enhancements such as improved caches and additional
  safety-critical elements. We are also exploring performance-boosting
  extensions.
- **CVE4**: The CV32E40Pv2, the latest core in the CVE4 family, is nearing full
  verification. It features an FPU and PackedSIMD extensions. Its predecessor
  has seen significant adoption in MCU-related tasks, and we anticipate the v2
  core will follow suit, with initial design-ins already underway.
- **CVE2**: Our smallest core, designed for deeply embedded control
  applications, is undergoing updates to its verification framework and feature
  set. We aim to achieve commercial-grade IP status within the next six months.
- **CVA6 Platform**: We’re developing a vendor-neutral platform for software
  validation on verified RISC-V core configurations, supporting various FPGA
  platforms, including cloud-based solutions like AWS ES2 FPGA instances.
- **Software Initiatives**: Our software task groups are actively working on
  upstreaming extensions, improving compilers, and enhancing emulators to
  ensure robust support for our cores by the latest tools and technologies.

---

## What changes can current OpenHW members expect?

Operationally, not much will change. Our team remains the same, and we plan to
expand it further. You’ll continue working with the same contacts on the same
projects with minimal disruption. We will be reaching out to existing OpenHW
members to guide them through the process to transition their formal membership
from the current OpenHW Group to the new OpenHW Foundation.

---

## What are the benefits of this change for members?

Aligning with the Eclipse Foundation offers members enhanced stability,
credibility, and a stronger focus on core projects. With over 20 years of
experience in delivering high-value open source technologies, Eclipse’s support
ensures that the newly formed OpenHW Foundation will continue to provide
reliable, high-quality open source hardware IP. This commitment not only
supports current members but also drives innovation and growth in the open
hardware industry, benefiting all members now and in the future.

---

## What are the benefits of this transition for technology partners?

This transition strengthens our already deep collaboration with the Eclipse
Foundation, offering technology partners increased continuity and stability in
adopting open source hardware IP. By becoming part of Eclipse, we’re better
positioned to maintain and expand our high-quality offerings, including robust
verification frameworks and tools compatible with both commercial and open
source EDA tools. This partnership also reaffirms our commitment to long-term
stability and innovation within the RISC-V ecosystem, giving technology
partners greater confidence in our ability to deliver reliable, cutting-edge
solutions over the long term.

---

## What new opportunities does this transition create for technology partners?

The combination of OpenHW’s leadership in open source hardware and the Eclipse
Foundation’s proven track record of fostering innovation and commercial success
presents a powerful advantage for technology partners. Partners will gain
access to a highly collaborative ecosystem, where cutting-edge RISC-V
technologies are developed to industry-leading standards and supported by a
diverse, member-driven governance model.

The adoption of open source principles in hardware is just beginning to take
off, and with Eclipse’s established expertise in enabling long-term value in
industries like automotive, FinTech, IoT, and beyond, technology partners can
confidently align their RISC-V initiatives with a trusted, stable organisation.
By joining forces, we create an environment where partners can innovate faster,
leverage a wide range of resources, and scale their projects with the assurance
that they are supported by an ecosystem that thrives on collaboration and
shared success.

This is a unique opportunity to shape the future of open source hardware,
driving next-gen technologies in cloud, mobile, AI, automotive, and beyond.

---

## Will the transition affect the development and release of new IP and tools?

Partnering with the Eclipse Foundation will positively impact the development
and release of new IP and tools. With additional resources and support, we can
accelerate our development roadmap, leading to more frequent updates,
enhancements, and new releases. Our member-driven approach ensures all
developments continue to meet industry needs and uphold the highest quality
standards. Expect a faster pace of innovation, aligned with technological
advancements and market demands.

---

## How does joining the Eclipse Foundation influence innovation in the RISC-V ecosystem?

Being part of the Eclipse Foundation boosts innovation within the RISC-V
ecosystem by fostering a stable and collaborative environment where
cutting-edge open source development can thrive. By leveraging Eclipse’s
infrastructure and expertise in nurturing vibrant communities, we enhance the
quality and reach of open source offerings, attracting an even more diverse set
of contributors. This inclusive approach stimulates new ideas and accelerates
ecosystem growth, ultimately benefiting the entire RISC-V landscape.

---

## How will this affect support for commercial EDA tools and other critical technologies?

We are committed to both maintaining and expanding our support for a diverse
range of commercial Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools. Our priority is
to ensure that OpenHW Foundation RISC-V IP Cores are fully compatible with the
tools most valued by our members. The inclusion of several EDA tool makers as
members of OpenHW underscores our commitment to achieving broad tool
compatibility. This is essential for facilitating successful implementations
across various industries, enabling robust and flexible solutions for all our
members and partners.

---

## How will joining the Eclipse Foundation impact OpenHW licensing?

Joining the Eclipse Foundation will not change our current licensing model. We
will continue to use the Apache 2.0 licence with Solderpad 2.0, providing the
flexibility needed for both industrial and academic use. This licensing model
supports commercial and industrial projects, as well as research and
development, allowing for innovation and customization of our cores.

Organisations can utilise OpenHW Foundation IP in their designs without needing
to be a member. However, membership provides significant advantages, including
the opportunity to shape our roadmap and ensure that our IP includes the
features you need. By becoming a member, you contribute to our ongoing
development and gain a pivotal role in guiding the future of our IP. This
engagement is especially beneficial for commercial projects and is a major
factor in the continued growth of our membership.

---

## How can stakeholders and members support this exciting new chapter?

To ensure a smooth and successful transition to the Eclipse Foundation, we
warmly invite our members, community leaders, and stakeholders to play an
active role. Here’s how you can contribute:

1. **Continue Your Support**: Keep championing OpenHW’s mission by engaging
   with and advancing our extensive open source RISC-V ecosystem, including our
   industrial-quality cores, software, emulation kits, and prototypes.
2. **Share the Impact**: Spread the word about the benefits of your
   participation and the valuable resources OpenHW offers. Let others know how
   our initiatives have positively impacted you.
3. **Elevate Your Engagement**: Consider upgrading to a higher membership tier.
   This not only strengthens our collective efforts but also positions you as a
   leader in driving innovation and industry advancements.
4. **Collaborate on Research Projects**: Involve us in your research projects,
   especially those under the Chips Joint Undertaking (JU) programs. OpenHW
   Foundation is here to support your research goals with ready-to-use open
   source IP cores that are versatile and effective in various applications.

---

## How can I participate and/or learn more about membership?

New OpenHW members can now join directly through the Eclipse Foundation. Visit
the [Eclipse Membership](https://www.eclipse.org/membership/) page to learn how
to become part of this exciting initiative.

For more information and to get involved, please email
<membership@openhwgroup.org>.
